
# Question Paper Generator

This Node.js application generates a question paper based on user input for total marks, difficulty distribution, and topic distribution.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js installed on your machine.

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:

  
   git clone https://github.com/Yashrajput7232/Question-paper-generator


# Project Structure

The Question Paper Generator project is structured to maintain a clean separation of concerns and modularity. Below is an overview of the key components and directories in the project:

## `src` Directory

- **`main.js`**: This is the main entry point of the application. It interacts with the user, receives input, and orchestrates the generation of the question paper.

- **`questionStore.js`**: Manages the loading of questions from the `data/questions.json` file. The `QuestionStore` class provides a simple interface to access the questions.

- **`generator.js`**: Contains the `QuestionPaperGenerator` class responsible for generating the question paper based on the user's input and the distribution configurations.

## `data` Directory

- **`questions.json`**: A JSON file containing sample questions. This file can be modified or extended to add new questions.

## `node_modules` Directory

- Contains the dependencies installed for the project. This directory is typically generated by npm and should not be manually modified.

## Root Directory

- **`package.json`**: Specifies project metadata, dependencies, and scripts. This file is used by npm to manage the project.

- **`package-lock.json`**: Provides version information for project dependencies to ensure consistent installations across different environments.

- **`README.md`**: The main documentation file that explains how to set up and use the Question Paper Generator. It includes instructions, usage examples, and additional notes.
# Usage
1. ### `cd question-paper-generator`

2. ### `npm install`

3. ### `cd src`    ( navigate to this particular directory other wise questions.json will no be accessed )

4. Run the application with the following command:
   ### `node main.js`


node src/main.js

# Example

Total Marks: 100

Percentage of Questions for "Easy": 20

Percentage of Questions for "Medium": 50

[Optional] Specify percentages for some topics? (yes/no): yes

Enter the topics and their percentages (e.g., "waves 10 thermodynamics 20"): waves 10 thermodynamics 20


The generated question paper will be displayed, and a PDF file (question_paper.pdf) will be created in the project directory.

Additional Notes

Adjust the data/questions.json file to add or modify sample questions.

Feel free to customize the application according to your needs.

License


